Korektor Model Creation
=======================

In order to create a new spellchecker model for Korektor, several models
must be created and a configuration file describing these models must be
provided.

Korektor uses flexible morphology system which associates several
//morphological factors// to every word, with the word itself being considered
as a first one. Usually the factors are ``form``, ``lemma`` and ``tag``, but
arbitrary factors may be used. Note that currently there is a hard limit of
four factors for efficiency (you can change ``FactorList::MAX_FACTORS`` if you
want more).

For each morphological factor a language model is needed.

The last required model is an error model describing costs of various spelling
errors.

== Creating a Morphology Model ==[model_create_morphology]

To create a morphology model, a morphology lexicon input file must be provided
and processed by the ``create_morphology`` binary.

=== Morphology Lexicon Input Format ===[model_create_morphology_format]

The morphology lexicon is an UTF-8 encoded file in the following format:
- the first line contains names of the factors delimited by ``|``
- following lines contain two space separated columns, the first column is a word
  factor strings delimited by ``|`` (there must be the same number of tokens as
  on the first line) and the second column is a count number of this morphology
  entry.
-

Example:

```
form|lemma|tag
dog|dog|NN 68
likes|like|VB 220
...
```

=== Running create_morphology ===[model_create_morphology_run]

The ``create_morphology`` should be run as follows:
``` create_morphology in_morphology_lexicon out_bin_morphology out_bin_vocabulary out_test_file


== Creating a Language Model for Each Morphological Factor ==[model_create_lm]

The language model for each morphological factor should be created by an
external tool such as SRILM or KenLM and stored in ARPA format.

To create a binary representation of such model in ARPA format, the
``create_lm_binary`` tool should be used as follows:
``` create_lm_binary in_arpa_model in_bin_morphology in_bin_vocabulary factor_name lm_order out_bin_lm


== Creating an Error Model ==[model_create_error]

To create an error model, a textual error model description must be provided
and processed by the ``create_error_model`` binary.

=== Error Model Input Format ===[model_create_error_format]

The textual error model description is in UTF-8 format and contains one error
model item (edit operation) per line. Each item contain three ``tab`` separated
columns ``signature``, ``edit distance`` and ``cost``:
- ``signature``: Describes the edit operation in the following format:
  - ``s_ab``: substitution of letter ``a`` for letter ``b``
  - ``i_abc``: insertion of letter ``a`` between letters ``b`` and ``c``
  - ``d_ab``: deletion of letter ``a`` following after letter ``b``
  - ``swap_ab``: swap of letters ``ab`` to ``ba``
  - ``case``: change of letter casing (lowercase to uppercase and vice verse)
  - ``substitutions``: default substitution operation used when no ``s_..`` rule apply
  - ``insertions``: default insertion operation used when no ``i_...`` rule apply
  - ``deletions``: default deletion operation used when no ``d_..`` rule apply
  - ``swaps``: default swap operation used when no ``swap_..`` rule apply

- ``edit distance``: Integral edit distance of this operation. This distance
  is used during the similar words lookup which is limited by maximum edit
  distance. The sensible default is 1, but it can be useful to use 0 for
  example when removing/adding diacritical mark only.

- ``cost``: The logarithm of the probability of the edit operation.


The first five lines must contain operations ``case``, ``substitutions``,
``insertions``, ``deletions`` and ``swaps``, in this order.

Example (with textually marked ``tab`` characters):

```
case<------tab------->0<---tab--->2.6
substitutions<--tab-->1<---tab--->3.8
insertions<---tab---->1<---tab--->4.4
deletions<----tab---->1<---tab--->3.5
swaps<------tab------>1<---tab--->4.1
s_qw<-------tab------>1<---tab--->3.7
s_ui<-------tab------>1<---tab--->2.3
s_yi<-------tab------>1<---tab--->2.1
s_aá<-------tab------>0<---tab--->1.7
i_iuo<------tab------>1<---tab--->4.8
...
```

=== Running create_error_model ===[model_create_error_run]

The ``create_error_model`` binary should be run as follows:
``` create_morphology --binarize in_txt_error_model out_bin_error_model


== Configuration File ==[model_create_conf]

The configuration specifies morphology model, language models and error model
to use. In addition, it specifies similar word searching strategy and it can
enable a diagnostics mode.

When a file is specified in the configuration file, its name is
considered to be relative to the directory containing the configuration file.

The configuration file is line oriented and each line should adhere to one of
the following formats:
- an empty line or a line starting with ``#`` is ignored
- ``morpholex=bin_morphology_file``: use the specified morphology model
- ``lm-bin_lm_file-model_order-model_weight``: use the specified language
  model. The corresponding factor is stored in the language model itself.
  Model weight is a floating point multiplicative factor used when all factor
  language model probabilities are summed together.
- ``errormodel=bin_error_model_file``: use the specified error model file
- ``search-casing_treatment-max_edit_distance-max_cost``: defines method for finding
  possible corrections. Multiple methods can be specified in the configuration
  file. The methods are tried in the order of their appearance in the
  configuration file until one produces nonempty set of possible corrections.
  Each search method has the following options:
  - ``casing_treatment``: there are three possible method names:
    - ``case_sensitive``: the casing of the original word is honored when
      looking up possible suggestions in the morphology model
    - ``ignore_case``: the casing of the original word is ignored when
      looking up possible suggestions in the morphology model, and the casing
      defined in the morphology model is used instead of the original one
    - ``ignore_case_keep_orig``: the casing of the original word is ignored
      when looking up possible suggestions in the morphology model, but the
      generated suggestions have the same casing as the original word
  - ``max_edit_distance``: the maximum edit distance of possible corrections
  - ``max_cost``: the maximum cost of possible corrections
- ``diagnostics=bin_vocabulary_file``: use diagnostics mode which dumps a lot of
  information during spellchecking. A vocabulary file created during
  [morphology model creation #model_create_morphology] is needed to print out
  the morphological factors.


The lines can be in arbitrary order, only the relative ordering of ``search-``
lines is utilized when finding possible corrections.

As an example consider the configuration file ``spellchecking_h2mor.txt`` of
``korektor-czech-130202`` model:

```
# Binary file containing morphology and lexicon.
morpholex=data/morphology_h2mor_freq2.bin

# Error model binary.
errormodel=data/error_model_train0.bin

# Language models in the following format:
# lm-[filename]-[order]-[weight]
lm-data/form_lm_h2mor.bin-3-0.40
lm-data/lemma_lm_h2mor.bin-3-0.1
lm-data/tag_lm_h2mor.bin-3-0.50

# Search options, each item specify a distinct search rounds.
# Searches are triggered in the order specified in this file,
# whenever one of the search rounds find at least one possibility,
# the consecutive search rounds are not triggered.
# The format is the following:
# search-[casing_treatment]-[max_edit_distance]-[max_cost]
search-case_sensitive-1-6
search-ignore_case_keep_orig-1-6
search-ignore_case_keep_orig-2-9

# The diagnostics mode can be activated by uncommenting the following line.
#diagnostics=data/morphology_h2mor_freq2_vocab.bin
```
