Czech Korektor Models
=====================

== Czech Korektor Models ==[korektor-czech]

Czech models are distributed under the
[CC BY-NC-SA http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/] licence.
The Czech morphology used by the model is based on
[MorfFlex CZ http://hdl.handle.net/11858/00-097C-0000-0015-A780-9]
Czech models work in Korektor version 2 or later.

Czech models are versioned according to the release date in format
``YYMMDD``, where ``YY``, ``MM`` and ``DD`` are two-digit representation of
year, month and day, respectively. The latest version is 130202.

=== Download ===[korektor-czech_download]

The latest version 130202 of the Czech Korektor models can be downloaded
from [LINDAT/CLARIN repository http://hdl.handle.net/11234/1-1460].

=== Acknowledgements ===[korektor-czech_acknowledgements]

This work has been using language resources developed and/or stored and/or
distributed by the LINDAT/CLARIN project of the Ministry of Education of the
Czech Republic (project //LM2010013//).

The latest Czech models were created by Michal Richter as part of his
Master thesis and are described in (Richter et al. 2012).

The MorfFlex CZ dictionary was created by Jan Hajič and Jaroslava Hlaváčová.


==== Publications ====[korektor-czech_publications]

- (Richter et al. 2012) Richter Michal, Straňák Pavel and Rosen Alexandr. //Korektor – A System for Contextual Spell-checking and Diacritics Completion// In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2012), pages 1-12, Mumbai, India, 2012.


=== Czech Model Variants ===[korektor-czech_variants]

The Czech model contains the following variants:

: ``korektok-czech-130202/diacritics_h2mor.conf``
  Spellchecker model which only _adds_ diacritical marks.
  Note that the diacritical marks are not removed by the model, so you have to
  strip them manually if you want to ignore them.

: ``korektok-czech-130202/spellchecking_h2mor.conf``
  Spellchecker model which considers corrections with edit distance at most
  once. You should use this model for generic spellchecking.

: ``korektok-czech-130202/spellchecking_h2mor_2edits.conf``
  Spellchecker model which considers corrections with edit distance at most
  two. This model can be useful if the required corrections are not found
  by the ``spellchecking_h2mor.conf`` model, but it may be considerably slower.


