Korektor
Version 1.9.0-devel

= Introduction =

%!include: manual_about.t2t


= Online =[online]

%!include: manual_online.t2t


= Release =[release]

== Download ==[download]

Korektor releases are available on [GitHub http://github.com/ufal/korektor], either as
a pre-compiled binary package, or source code packages only.

- [Latest release http://github.com/ufal/korektor/releases/latest]
- [All releases http://github.com/ufal/korektor/releases], [Changelog https://github.com/ufal/korektor/blob/master/CHANGES]


=== Spellchecker Models ===[spellchecker_models]

To use Korektor, a spellchecker model is needed. The language models are available
from [LINDAT/CLARIN http://www.lindat.cz] infrastructure and described further
in the
%web% [Korektor User's Manual korektor/users-manual].
%manual% [Korektor User's Manual #users_manual].
Currently the following language models are available:

- Czech: [korektor-czech-130202 http://hdl.handle.net/11234/1-1460] ([documentation http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/korektor/users-manual#korektor-czech-130202])


=== Original Michal Richter's version ===[original_michal_richters_version]

The original Michal Richter's version can be downloaded
[here http://hdl.handle.net/11858/00-097C-0000-000D-F67C-5].


== License ==[license]

MorphoDiTa is an open-source project and is freely available for non-commercial
purposes. The library is distributed under [2-Clause BSD license http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause]
and the associated models and data under [CC BY-NC-SA http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/],
although for some models the original data used to create the model may impose
additional licensing conditions.

If you use this tool for scientific work, please give credit to us by
referencing [Korektor website http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/korektor] and
[Richter et al. 2012 #publications].


= Installation =[instalation]

%web% [Korektor Installation on separate page. korektor/install]
%manual% %!include: manual_install.t2t


= User's Manual =[users_manual]

%web% [Korektor User's Manual on separate page. korektor/users-manual]
%manual% %!include: manual_user.t2t


= Model Creation =[model_creation]

%web% [Korektor Model Creation on separate page. korektor/model-creation]
%manual% %!include: manual_model_creation.t2t


= Contact =[contact]

Current Authors:
- [Milan Straka http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/milan-straka], straka@ufal.mff.cuni.cz
- [Pavel Straňák http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pavel-stranak], stranak@ufal.mff.cuni.cz
- [Loganathan Ramasamy http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/loganathan-ramasamy], ramasamy@ufal.mff.cuni.cz


Original Author:
- Michal Richter, michalisek@gmail.com


[Korektor website http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/korektor].

Korektor LINDAT/CLARIN entry to appear soon.


= Acknowledgements =[morphodita_acknowledgements]

This work has been using language resources developed and/or stored and/or distributed by the LINDAT/CLARIN project of the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic (project //LM2010013//).

%web% Acknowledgements for individual language models are listed in [Korektor User's Manual page korektor/users-manual].
%manual% Acknowledgements for individual language models are listed in [Korektor User's Manual #users_manual].


== Publications ==[publications]

- (Richter et al. 2012) Richter Michal, Straňák Pavel and Rosen Alexandr. //Korektor – A System for Contextual Spell-checking and Diacritics Completion// In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2012), pages 1-12, Mumbai, India, 2012.


== Bibtex for Referencing ==[bibtex_for_referencing]

```
@InProceedings{richter12,
  booktitle    = {Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2012)},
  title        = {Korektor – A System for Contextual Spell-checking and Diacritics Completion},
  editor       = {Martin Kay and Christian Boitet},
  author       = {Michal Richter and Pavel Stra{\v{n}}{\'{a}}k and Alexandr Rosen},
  year         = {2012},
  publisher    = {Coling 2012 Organizing Committee},
  organization = {{IIT} Bombay},
  address      = {Mumbai, India},
  venue        = {{IIT} Bombay, {VMCC}},
  pages        = {1--12}
}
```

== Permanent Identifier ==[permanent_identifier]

If you prefer to reference MorphoDiTa by a permanent identifier (PID),
you can use the one which will appear here soon.
